What this time we have the pleasure to hear from another member of the governing body,
Brother David's plane, and the title of his talk is Follow the Course of Humility.
All of you are humble people.
If you weren't, you'd never have been invited to Gilead.
Have you ever noticed, though, that where humility is concerned,
we do well in some situations, not so well in others.
For example, if someone commends us for a good job on a talk on the midweek meeting,
or perhaps a comment on the watchtower study,
we give all credit to Jehovah, and to the training we've received.
And that's good.
But in other situations, we might get into trouble.
In other situations, our humility might be put to the tests.
Now at Bethel, as has been mentioned on this program already,
we all work with people.
We all work closely with others.
As some of you sisters work on a team.
You work with others.
And you brothers, you all have responsibilities in the congregation,
or at Bethel, or perhaps both.
But in all situations, humility is needed.
So I thought that this morning we might consider what we can learn about
your humility from Jehovah God, and from the apostles of Jesus Christ.
Now, humility is a broad term.
So let's narrow it down a little bit.
Let's consider a couple of aspects of humility.
And the first one I'm going to mention might surprise you.
A insight on the Scriptures tells us that humility
includes the ability to show mercy and compassion to others.
The ability to show mercy and compassion to others.
The ability to make exceptions where that is warranted.
Well, that's Jehovah, isn't it?
Jehovah isn't rigid.
Jehovah knows when to make exceptions.
How often did you read in the Bible as you went through?
Jehovah reconsidered.
Jehovah makes perfect rules.
And yet at times he reconsideres.
Now let's illustrate.
These relights are getting ready to conquer the promised land.
And the first up is the city of Jericho.
Now there's a rule, a rule of engagement, and it's very clear.
Jehovah says, you must not make any covenant with them
or show them any favor.
No covenant, no favor, that's the rule.
It's a perfect rule because it's Jehovah's rule.
Joshua sent two spies into the city
and they went to the home of a prostitute named Rahab.
Now wait a minute.
Let's think about that.
Pretty easy to say, isn't it?
Joshua sent two spies into the city.
They went into a house of a prostitute named Rahab.
Now we often think about the faith of Rahab.
But what about the faith of those two spies?
Can you imagine the faith that it took for those men?
The Bible says they were young men to go into that city.
Now if they were under 40 years of age,
they were born in the wilderness.
How many cities had they ever seen?
Had they ever seen a city before?
How many actual houses had they entered?
How many foreigners had they ever met?
Maybe not very many.
Maybe a couple on the other side of the Jordan,
but not very many.
So now, as soon as they enter the city, what happens?
Someone calls the police.
They're recognized right away.
And no wonder, first of all, they
weren't dressed like canonites.
You couldn't order your clothes from Amazon.
And those days, you know, they were
dressed like Israelites.
They probably had on 40-year-old hand-me-downs
from their fathers who had died in the desert.
So they didn't look like canonites.
They didn't blend in.
And as soon as they opened their mouth,
people would say, you're not from around here.
Are you?
You don't speak the canonite language.
So no wonder they were discovered.
They had to get off the street.
They had to get out of sight.
And you wonder if Jehovah directed them to Rahab.
You wonder if Jehovah saw something in Rahab, something
in her heart that he could work with.
Or do you believe that it was a coincidence
that the spies were led to the only family in Jericho
that was worth saving?
It could be that Jehovah was involved with that.
Well, Rahab decides that she's going to hide the spies.
But she has a condition.
And if you'd like to turn to judges,
Joshua, or rather, chapter 2, we'll
see what that condition was.
I'll give you a moment.
We're going to read that Joshua, chapter 2, and verse 13.
This is Rahab.
Now, we don't know how she communicated with them.
Must have been a lot of sign language.
We heard about sign language a minute ago.
Must have been about a lot of sign language going on
because the canonite language wasn't quite like Hebrew,
but anyway, somehow they got the point across.
And here's what she says in verse 13.
You must spare the lives of my father and mother,
my brothers and sisters, and all who belong to them.
And you must save us from death.
What's she asking for?
She's asking for an exception.
There's a rule.
You must not make any covenant with them.
You must not show them any favor.
And she's asking for an exception.
And quite a broad exception.
She's asking not just for her own life,
but for the lives of all of her family members,
as well some might have thought that she was pushing it.
But she asked for that.
And the spies showed favor to Rahab.
They made an exception.
And they promised that when the time came,
Rahab and her family would be spared.
The Bible doesn't criticize the spies
for making that exception.
So it may be that Jehovah had something to do with it.
Maybe Jehovah moved the spies in that direction.
Maybe Jehovah saw something in Rahab that he wanted to save.
Now later on, Joshua and the elders,
they didn't follow instructions.
And they made a covenant with the Ghiblianites.
And the Bible does mention that.
But it doesn't mention this when it comes to the spies here.
They made the exception.
And we do know that Jehovah agreed with that exception.
How do we know that?
Because when he made the walls of Jericho fall,
he preserved the section of the wall
where Rahab's family lived.
Jehovah agreed to an exception to his perfect rule.
Now you know where I'm going with this.
We need rules.
And most of the time a rule will satisfy our needs.
But in a few cases, it only makes sense
to make an exception to the rule.
I'm reminded of the time not too long ago
when the Bethel family moved out of Brooklyn.
Now there are a lot of Bethelites
in the congregations who were elders and ministerial servants.
And so a massive reorganization of congregations
was necessary in New York City.
And the elders and the circuit overseers
had to make sure that each congregation
had a balanced number of elders, ministerial servants,
and publishers.
And so publishers were assigned to various congregations.
Can you imagine hundreds of thousands of assignments
that had to be made?
And so there was a rule.
And it was a pretty good rule.
And the rule was, go where you're assigned.
We don't have time to consider the personal feelings
about every publisher in New York City.
So please, go where you're assigned.
That was the rule.
Now there were two sisters, single sisters,
who were assigned to a congregation.
They didn't have a car.
And you couldn't reach the congregation
they were assigned to by public transportation.
And so they were going to have to walk to the Kingdom Hall.
And the area where the Kingdom Hall was located
was very dangerous.
Their safety would have been involved.
Well, you had a rule.
Go where you're assigned.
But the circuit overseer lovingly made an exception.
So the point is, we do need rules.
And most of the time, our rules, even our imperfect rules,
will serve most of the brothers.
But let's use common sense.
And there are times when we have to consider an exception.
Now, can you think of anyone who was grateful
that Jehovah made an exception for Rahab?
And she didn't die a Jericho?
Can you think of someone?
He was mentioned in this program.
Boy has.
The husband of Ruth.
Rahab was his mother.
And think of this.
If Rahab had died in Jericho, would there ever have been a David?
Let's go on.
Jehovah directed that seven nations in Canaan
were to be eliminated.
And the Ghiblianites were among them, but they had a plan.
They pretended to be from a far off nation
that wasn't slated for destruction.
And so the elders, not consulting Jehovah,
they made a vow that the Ghiblianites would be spared.
They made a covenant with the Ghiblianites.
Well, it wasn't long, but what the Israelites realized
they'd been tricked.
But even though their oath had been obtained under false pre-tenses,
they agreed to keep their word.
But it's what happens next that's interesting.
Five kings of the Amorites find out that the Israelites
and the Ghiblianites have made a covenant, and they are furious.
And so they are determined to kill all the Ghiblianites,
which was really what Jehovah had intended in the first place.
What did Jehovah do?
He could have said, well, that solves your problem.
You promised the Ghiblianites that you wouldn't put them to death,
so you can sit back and let the Amorites through the job.
But what did Jehovah do?
Joshua chapter 10 and verse 8.
Now remember, he had had a rule.
It had a rule that everyone was to be destroyed.
Joshua chapter 10 and verse 8.
Jehovah then said to Joshua,
do not be afraid of them, for I have handed them over to you.
Not one of them will be able to stand against you.
Imagine this humility.
Jehovah helps the Israelites to keep a promise
they had no business making.
That is humility.
Well, let's talk about Jesus' apostles.
We can really learn humility from them as well.
Now we often talk about the disputes they had,
but mostly that was before Pentecost.
When you think about it, after Pentecost,
it was a different story.
What do we find about the apostles after Pentecost?
Well, they weren't interested in taking credit for things,
and they weren't searching for the limelight.
They were really a very self-effacing the apostles.
Matthew wrote the first inspired book,
the first inspired history of Jesus Christ.
Do we see Matthew's picture on every other page?
Matthew giving a public talk.
Matthew performing a miracle.
Matthew shepherding.
No.
His name has only mentioned twice in the whole gospel.
And both times, he describes himself as a tax collector,
not a very flattering portrayal.
And what about the apostle John?
The name John appears 23 times in his gospel,
but it never refers to the apostle John.
It almost always refers to John the Baptist.
When the apostles and older men met
to consider the matter of circumcision,
was that an important meeting?
Would you agree that that was a landmark meeting?
The apostles and older men are there who presided.
Which of the twelve was jockeying for position?
James, the brother of Jesus, not he wasn't even an apostle.
He's the one who presided.
And then later on when the decision was made,
who announced the decision?
Again, James, you don't find Peter or John saying,
well, you know, this is a pretty important decision.
We think that one of us should announce it.
The apostles had learned their lesson.
Well, remember that when the circuit overseer visits.
Now, you may have heavy responsibilities at Bethel.
But when he visits a congregation,
he's in charge that week.
Follow his direction.
Don't be critical of the circuit overseer.
And don't be afraid to let him know how much you appreciate
his service.
And you know, our Bethel families here in the United States
are such a wonderful example of that.
When the circuit overseer first visit a Bethel congregation,
they're a little bit nervous for about 10 minutes.
But the Bethel family shows that they appreciate so much
the council.
And sometimes they talk about the circuit overseer's council
for weeks after his visit.
They really, deeply appreciate the visit of the circuit
overseer and they respect that man.
And we know that you're going to do the same.
Humble people are happy to contribute to the kingdom work.
Anyway, they can just so they can contribute.
They're not hung up on privileges.
They're not hung up on prestige or on position.
They don't seek the limelight.
And in this regard, we're going to talk a little bit
about the Apostle Paul.
Now, Brother Lippold mentioned in his talk
that Paul was not a man to boast.
And that's quite true.
Actually, Paul was a very humble man.
Now, think about this.
At the time, Paul was converted about 34 CE.
Jesus told Ananias that Paul was going
to have a wonderful privilege.
Let's read about it.
Acts chapter 9.
Acts chapter 9 and verse 15.
Acts 9 and 15.
And this is Jesus to Ananias.
But the Lord said to him, go, because this man
is a chosen vessel to me, to bear my name to the nations,
as well as to kings and to the sons of Israel.
A chosen vessel.
How about that?
How did Paul react?
Did he let that go to his head?
Did he immediately go up to Jerusalem
and volunteer to be on the governing body,
saying, well, now that I'm anointed,
I can be on the governing body?
No, he stayed where he was in Damascus.
And he kept preaching the good news.
Now, in 36 CE, he did go up to world headquarters
in Jerusalem.
And how did he react?
Did he say, here I am, the chosen vessel.
I'm here to help you run the place.
He stayed with the Apostle Peter for a couple of weeks.
Apparently, Peter had moved to Jerusalem.
But he kept preaching.
He just put his head to the ground
and he kept preaching the good news
until one day Jesus appeared to him
when Paul was in the temple.
And he told Paul that he had to leave Jerusalem immediately
because the Jews were out to kill him.
How did Paul react?
Did he say, but the governing body is going to need me?
If I leave, how will they manage without me?
They need my wisdom.
Paul obeyed theocratic direction.
And he left.
He accepted a new assignment.
Tarsus.
What kind of assignment is that for a chosen vessel?
It was out in the boondocks.
It was 500 miles from the governing body in Jerusalem.
How would the governing body get to know his wonderful qualities
if he was 500 miles from Jerusalem?
Paul went to Tarsus and he kept preaching.
We don't even know if there was a congregation of Tarsus
when Paul got there, but Paul kept preaching.
I was thinking of the lovely interview we just heard
where the brother talked about how he eventually ended up
in the circuit work.
But before that time, Jehovah gave him a little training.
And perhaps that's what happened to the Apostle Paul.
Do you know that Paul may have remained in Tarsus
for eight years preaching?
And then Barnabas came along.
Eleven years after Paul's conversion,
Barnabas came along and invited him to Antioch.
And from that time on, Paul started to have privileges.
And five years after that, Paul wrote his first inspired letter
that we cherish to this day.
Paul worked hard all his life.
He did more than any of the 12 Apostles,
but he was never upset that he wasn't counted among them.
Paul appreciated the privileges he had.
He viewed them as undeserved kindness,
and we know that your brothers and sisters
are going to do the same.
You're invited to conduct a meeting for field service?
Treasure the privilege.
Any privilege that you receive,
treasure it, has an expression of love from Jehovah.
Well, when you go to your assignments,
many situations are going to test your humility.
And I know that your brothers and sisters
are going to pass the test.
The branch asks you to work on a project.
And deep down, you don't quite agree with it.
Deep down, you really wonder if it's going to work.
And you wonder if it's not going to be a waste of your time.
But you're not going to put it on the back burner
and say, well, I'll get to it someday if I get time.
You're not going to do that.
You're going to put heart and soul into the project.
You're going to pray to Jehovah to bless the project,
the project that you didn't quite agree with.
Or if you're asked to make a recommendation,
and you favor one option over another,
humility is going to move you to present all of the options,
all of the pros and cons equally.
You're not going to slant things, thinking, well, you know,
I'm going to have to help these brothers
to make this decision.
So I'll put a really heavy weight on the pros,
and I'm going to make it really light on the cons.
Don't do that.
I know that you're going to present everything honestly,
and you're going to recognize that it's
the Holy Spirit that helps brothers to make decisions.
Trust the Spirit to move the brothers,
to do the right thing.
Suppose you sisters are working on a team,
or you brothers are working on a body of elders.
I know that not even in your heart of hearts,
you're going to think that you have the best judgment
on the team, and that while you can listen politely
to the expressions of others, but really,
yours is the only sensible conclusion,
and we hope that the brothers and sisters
are going to go along with us.
You're not going to think that, because nobody's
right all the time.
Jehovah's Spirit can work on any member of the team.
Don't get discouraged.
If every suggestion you make in a meeting, get shot down.
It happens to the best of us.
And there will be other meetings.
And hopefully, some of them will go better for you.
Don't get discouraged.
And don't decide, well, I'm not going to say anything anymore.
I'm not going to contribute anymore.
Be humble.
And recognize that at times, we may make suggestions
that don't make very much sense.
I certainly appreciate the kind way
the governing body deals with me
with some of my lamberian suggestions.
In your comments and your assignments
on the midweek meeting, use the knowledge
you've gained at Gilead to build up.
And I know you won't proofread the meetings.
I don't think that was a good illustration.
That scripture wasn't applied right.
That isn't the right word.
You won't do that.
Just sit back, relax, and enjoy the meetings.
Take in the spiritual food.
Rejoice in whatever the brothers and sisters
have prepared for you.
Well, I haven't told you anything you don't already know.
You're all humble people.
These are just reminders that all of us need.
All of us are humble most of the time.
We pray for the day when we'll be humble all of the time.
And in the meantime, let's work on it, you and I.
Let's work on it together.
Let's follow the course of humility.
If we do, we'll continue to be used by Jehovah.
We love you.
May Jehovah bless you richly.
Well, thank you very much, brothers
plain, for the excellent scriptural examples in that talk,
including above all, Jehovah's example.
And for the reminders that humble people follow rules
and humble people, though, are reasonable.
Beautiful reminders and examples through that talk.
Well, now, for the presentation of the diplomas,
and I will be assisted in this by brother William Malenfant,
a helper to the teaching committee.
First of all, we have brother and sister Chung,
and they will return to the Canada branch.
And here we have brother and sister Choupec.
They'll return to the central Europe branch,
where the Choupec has been appointed to serve
on the branch committee.
That was just in Brooklyn.
And we have brother and sister De Choupec.
They will return to the France branch.
Very nice.
Can you help me, brother?
Brother and sister Dolev will return to the Bulgaria branch.
Thank you.
That was great.
And brother and sister Issa have been assigned
to World Headquarters at Warwick,
where brother Issa will work with hospital information services.
Welcome.
Brother and sister Grim have been assigned to the Ghana branch.
Brother Grim has been appointed to serve on the branch committee.
Brother Kits has been assigned to the central Europe branch,
where he will work under the oversight
of World Headquarters Office of Public Information.
Brother Grim.
Brother Inguete will return to the Seronam branch.
Brother and sister Peltonon have been assigned
to the central Europe branch.
Brother Peltonon will work under the oversight
of World Headquarters Office of Public Information.
Brother Velev will return to the Bulgaria branch.
Congratulations.
Brother Vita has been assigned to the Albania branch.
Very nice.
Brother and sister Weaver will return to the Spain branch.
Brother Weaver has been appointed to serve on the branch committee.
OK, well, that was wonderful to share in.
Now they're graduates.
So at this time, we're pleased to present
the graduates of the 151st class of Gilead.
There's a lot of love here today.
That's wonderful.
Well, we have a letter to be presented
by one of the now graduates of the 151st class.
Brother Davita Vita from Italy going to Albania.
We'll read that now at this time.
To the governing body and better family, dear brothers,
for the past five months, we have traveled through the Bible
from the first page to the last.
We experienced the eat of the Sinai,
found ourselves in the depths of the Red Sea,
in the narrow hallways of Jerusalem,
and high up on Mount Hermann.
We met the prophets, visited the temple,
saw the awesome Celestia chariot,
and enjoyed the precious company of Jesus and the Apostles.
What is the result of our journey?
The very same that resulted for Job
after he encountered his God, great astonishment.
Although he recognized that he would only
be able to understand just the fringes of his ways,
it was enough to make him marvel at Jehovah.
Now I know that you are able to do all things.
At the same time, the experience humbled him
that he put his hand over his mouth.
That is how we feel today.
Gilead leaves us in its wake, filled with awe,
humility and gratitude.
Studying the Bible is studying about Jehovah himself,
and what we have learned as impressed in our hearts
the depth of Jehovah's love for each one of his servants.
We saw this love not only in numerous Bible accounts,
but in those who imitate him and his son Jesus,
the governing body, our guest instructors,
our Gilead instructors, and the better family
here at Patterson and in other complexes.
Your example is a living answer to the question
how to define Christian love.
We express our heartfelt thanks to you, the governing body,
and all those who made this unforgettable experience possible.
We know that is our divine education
is not our possession alone.
We receive it to share it.
The end of a Gilead school for our class
is the close of a chapter.
And we are determined to write the next chapter of our story
by showing the same love and personal interest we have experienced.
It is our prayer that as we apply what we have been taught,
we inspire others and make Jehovah's arts rejoice.
As the Psalmist expressed as Psalm 10648,
made Jehovah be praised throughout all eternity, praise Ja.
Your brothers and sisters, the 151st class of Gilead.
Thank you for that beautiful letter.
And those heartfelt expressions are something we will remember too.
Well, in closing, we just have a few things to say for you now.
You are graduates.
Graduates of the 151st class of Gilead.
I used the word students a few times earlier on
because you didn't have the plumber in hand yet.
Now you have them.
And that's just such an encouraging and wonderful thing to see.
You may know that back in 2011, the governing body
adjusted the objective of Gilead school training a bit.
Now the training is even more focused on strengthening
and stabilizing the field and branch organization.
Since that time, a good number of graduates
have been appointed to a branch or a country committee.
And so with Jehovah's blessing, the training is working.
But not all graduates from Gilead are brothers who may
someday receive such responsibilities.
We have many sisters in each class too, don't we?
So then how might the goal of strengthening
and stabilizing the field and branch organization
be reached through each one of you
graduating brothers and sisters?
Well, the goal is reached when others can look at what you do and say.
And they see a man or woman of strong faith.
Just as Paul wrote at 1 Thessalonians 1-8,
where he said in part, not only has the word of God
sounded out from you, but your faith in God
has spread abroad in every place.
And that's exactly what happens, isn't it?
Yes, such examples are priceless.
Your schooling was designed to strengthen your faith
and were confident that it is done just that.
You are ready for what is ahead.
Our faith keeps us strong, though.
And at 1 John 5-4, the Apostle John wrote,
this is the conquest that has conquered the world, our faith, right?
With that in mind, for just a few minutes,
let's consider how you can keep your faith strong
when you get to your assignments.
And then you can be that powerful force for good
in strengthening and stabilizing the field and branch organization.
So when you're settled into your assignments,
perhaps with new responsibilities,
remember to remain focused on what is most important,
namely the doing of God's will.
What could cause a person to forget this, if not careful?
Well, we get into danger.
If we ever start to feel like we have achieved everything
that we've wanted to achieve as our spiritual goals.
See, if we allow that to happen, our interests
could turn to other things.
We never want to allow that to happen.
We want to remain focused on Jehovah, his work.
It's always about Jehovah and helping other people.
Never become distracted by losing sight of the need
to keep advancing spiritually day by day.
Never become content with what this empty system of things
has to offer.
Remain fixed on Jehovah's promises
and on the doing of his will.
Keep your large shield of faith strong.
In Bible time, soldiers repaired their shields
between battles.
If a soldier found damage or weakness to his shield,
he diligently made the needed repairs.
In this way, he was always ready to fight the next battle.
He never let down his guard.
We need to keep this up in a spiritual way.
Over time, a brother or sister might lay down
his or her shield of faith and go after things
that have no lasting value.
The devil wants nothing more than to see us
and neglect our faith, because that will pull everything down
if he can do that.
We show that we're strengthening our faith in God
when we take time to give attention to our spiritual need.
The basics always count.
So then be certain to regularly attend Christian meetings,
which we know you'll do and soon in person, right?
To zealously speak to others about Jehovah's name
and his kingdom, to maintain strong faith
by reading God's word every day,
and then to apply its counsel prayerfully
and all that you do.
Those are the basics that never fail us
and help us to keep our faith strong.
So in summary, don't take liberties with your spiritual routine
how that you've graduated from this wonderful, beautiful school.
Never neglect those basic things.
Never become self-satisfied because of resting on a privilege
that you may come to enjoy.
And finally, keep growing as a godly person
because you remember how kind Jehovah has been to you
and to all of us.
Be like the diligent soldier who worked hard
to care for that shield and all of his vital armor.
As you remain focused on what Gilead's school
has now strengthened you to do,
you will always be ready to fight the fine fight of the faith.
As mentioned earlier, we have confidence
that you will do just that.
May Jehovah and his dear son bless you,
each one of you for it.